---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Overview
hide_title: true
---

# Overview

Checkout out **[the Botanalytics Postman documentation.](https://www.postman.com/botanalytics/workspace/official-botanalytics-workspace/documentation/23965665-167c8511-a61f-4ceb-88bf-bedfbf10d226?entity=&branch=&version=)** We hope it makes it easier to explore the Botanalytics REST API and we’re also keen to hear any feedback that you might have on **[our feedback forum.](https://feedback.beta.botanalytics.co/)**


# Introduction 

 The Botanalytics  **[API](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/API)**
 is organized around **[REST](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer)**. Our  API has predictable, resource-oriented URLs, and uses HTTP response codes to indicate API errors. We use built-in HTTP features, like HTTP authentication and HTTP verbs, which are understood by off-the-shelf HTTP clients. We support **[cross-origin resource sharing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing)**, allowing you to interact securely with our API from a client-side web application (though you should never expose your secret API token in any public website's client-side code). **[JSON](https://www.json.org/json-en.html)** is returned by all API responses, including errors, although our API libraries convert responses to appropriate language-specific objects. 

 Be sure to subscribe to Botanalytics's API announce mailing list to receive information on new additions and changes to Botanalytics's API
 and language libraries.

## Authentication

 The Botanalytics API authentication is organized around **[JWT authentication.](https://jwt.io/introduction)**  Authenticate your account by including your JWT token in API requests. You can manage your API tokens for the each channel in the Project settings. Your JWT API token carry many privileges, so it's crucial to keep them secure. Avoid sharing your API token in public areas like GitHub or client-side code and so forth. All API requests must be made over HTTPS. Calls made over plain HTTP will fail. It's important to note that API requests without proper authentication will also fail.

## Supported Authentication Methods
 
 The Botanalytics REST API uses Bearer authentication (also called token authentication) is an **[HTTP authentication scheme](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Authentication)** that involves security tokens called bearer tokens. The name “Bearer authentication” can be understood as “give access to the bearer of this token.” The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a channel creation request. The client must send this token in the Authorization header when making requests to protected resources. Follow the steps below to obtain and use an API key:


1. #### Obtaining an API Key: 
 To obtain an  API
 key, sign up for a Botanalytics account **[at](https://login.beta.botanalytics.co/)**. Once you have created an account, navigate to your project settings or 
 dashboard to generate an API
 key.

2. #### Including the API Key: 
To include the API key in your requests:

   - #### Request Header: 
   Include the API
 key in the `Authorization` header as a Bearer token. The header should be formatted as follows:
     

```curl  
Authorization: Bearer BOTANALYTICS_API_KEY
``` 

Please note the following security best practices for API
 key usage:

- **Keep API
 Keys Secure**: Treat your API
 key as a sensitive credential and keep it confidential. Do not expose your API
 key in client-side code or publicly accessible websites.

- **Secure Storage**: Store your API
 key securely, following industry best practices. Consider using encryption or secure key management systems to protect your API
 key.

- **Transmitting API
 Keys**: When transmitting the API
 key over the network, ensure that you use secure channels such as HTTPS to encrypt the communication.

- **Scoped Access**: Depending on the API
 design, certain endpoints or actions may require specific permissions or scopes. Review the API
 documentation to understand any additional authorization requirements for specific API
 functionalities.

If you encounter authentication errors or issues, the API
will respond with appropriate error codes and messages. Ensure that you handle these errors gracefully.

Remember to adapt the instructions and examples to match the specific details and conventions of the Botanalytics API
authentication process.


## Errors

When you interact with the Botanalytics API
, it's important to handle errors gracefully to ensure a smooth integration and provide a good user experience. The API
 returns appropriate HTTP response codes and error messages to indicate and describe any errors that occur.

 Botanalytics uses conventional HTTP response codes to indicate the success or failure of an API request. In general: Codes in the `2xx` range indicate success. Codes in the `4xx`  range indicate an error that failed given the information provided (e.g., a required parameter was omitted, a charge failed, etc.). Codes in the `5xx` range indicate an error with Botanalytics's servers.


**HTTP Response Codes**

| Status Code          | Status Name      | Description                                                                                              |
| -------------------- | ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `200`, `201`             | OK               | Everything worked as expected (some API calls may return 201 instead).                                    |
| `400`                  | Bad Request      | The request was unacceptable, often due to missing a required parameter.                                  |
| `401`                  | Unauthorized     | You forgot to include your API token or it is wrong.                                                     |
| `404`                  | Not Found        | The requested resource doesn't exist.                                                                    |
| `500`, `502`, `503`, `504`   | Server Errors    | Something went wrong on Botanalytics's end. Try again later. (These are rare.)                           |



## Error Messages

In addition to the HTTP response codes, the API
 provides detailed error messages in the response body to help you identify and troubleshoot issues. Error messages are returned in JSON format and typically include information such as the error code and a descriptive message.

Make sure you read the response body to extract and handle error messages appropriately. The error messages can provide insights into the specific issue you encountered and guide you in resolving it.

## API libraries


Official libraries for the Botanalytics API are available in several languages such as **[Node.js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@botanalytics/core)** and **[Python.](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/botanalytics/)**
